i like to say that anything that you
love as a child is connected
to your inner child which is directly
connected to source
as soon as i started doing everything
that i loved
there was a surge of power a surge of
confidence
i wasn't insecure anymore
because the emotion that had the most
dominance in my thought process and in
my heart
process was actually being paid
attention to
everybody welcome to impact our goal
with this show and company is to
introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams
today's guest is one of the most
fascinating
rags to richest stories i have ever
heard he was born in the third ward of
houston texas his father was abusive
alcoholic drug dealer who was murdered
when he was just 12 years old
and by the time he was a teenager he was
breaking into cars and houses and his
criminal activities continued to
escalate
until he was sentenced to 12 years in a
french prison for drug smuggling
fortunately he only ended up serving two
and a half years of his sentence and
recognizing
immediately he'd been given a second
chance he cleaned up his act and threw
himself into his passion for music after
a chance encounter with the actor and
hip hop artist ludacris
he signed a half million dollar deal
with dtp records
and suddenly he was writing hit songs
for major artists such as two chains and
dating american idol winner jordan
sparks
but it all happened way too fast he was
playing the part of the famous rock star
but secretly he was living out of his
car
and drowning in hundreds of thousands of
dollars of debt
for more than two years he lived in his
car
until one day he hit rock bottom and
knowing he had to make a
drastic change he quit the record label
changed the group of people he was
hanging out with and went to work on his
mindset
he read the power of positive thinking
282 times
took total responsibility for his life
and began focusing on value creation
and from that he was able to build
multiple six-figure businesses
going from massively in debt to the one
percent
and establishing himself as one of the
premier motivational speakers on the
planet
so please help me in welcoming the man
who was invited to speak in nearly 30
countries last year the author of the
upcoming book
change your mindset change your life
garen jones
[Applause]
that was one hell of an entrance dude
that's one hell of a life
so it is insane to me where you started
where you've gone and where you've ended
up now and
what i really want to start with is how
do you
[Music]
leverage rock bottom because most people
hit it and that's just where they
stay so how did you turn that into
something
that's amazing and beautiful you know
when i was at rock bottom i didn't know
that i was at rock bottom and
you can't really change what you're not
aware of and so
it was like one of those things where
it's like can it get any worse bam
can it get any worse bam and it just i
kept
asking the question can it get any worse
i didn't know that what i was asking was
causing my life
so it was to the point where either i
die or i do something about it because
it was like i didn't have my my
my daughter pretty much was like you're
not my father you don't know what love
is
my girlfriend had just broke up with me
and you know my mother was
pretty much she had 16 different um
what's it called she was on 16 different
medications there was so much stuff
going on and i'm watching
all of these people be successful and
i'm like
i'm more talented than them and i don't
understand
why i'm still in the exact same spot
which i didn't know was rock bottom
and then it one day it just all came
crashing down
and i was like why am i here i remember
lying down in the middle of the road
and i'm like i want to [__] die like
right now
and i stayed there cars were driving by
honking and everything
and i don't know what happened in
between that
but literally my car had just got out of
the impound
my mom had paid for it she didn't have
much money but
somehow she would always do something
for her baby boy
and she got my she got my car to the
impound the day i got my car out of the
impound
that's when somebody had broke into my
car like and it was like can it get any
worse
that night on la brea on the corner of
la brea in hollywood
i'm at the there's like this like little
shopping center
and i my car was parked my window was
busted out to the right
and and literally it was raining it was
3 43 in the morning august 2011
and it was i yelled out
eyes bloodshot red and i still didn't
know that this was rock bottom
but i've always focused on what i don't
want and i just remember saying okay
okay i'm tired of fighting i don't want
to fight anymore
i want to be healthy i want to be happy
i want to be surrounded by nothing but
positive people i just
i just want to inspire people and i want
to make a bunch of money
but i want the money to represent
something that i passionately believe in
just show me a sign
show me a sign show me and i just kept
saying it over and over and
over it wasn't until a week later
until i the i met the the man at the gas
station and he asked me for money
and he said he said do you have any
money he's like it was a homeless guy
and he had a lot of money i said you
have more money than me
and he goes if you ever seen the movie
rain man the guy was talking
to himself person did the exact same
thing was like change your mindset
change your life
change your mindset change your life
change your minds to change your life
change your mindset
and then they walked away and it was in
that
very moment i felt like my
whole entire life was a lie
and once you had that realization and
you knew okay i need to change my
mindset
what what was that first step honestly
so the very first opposite thing that i
did was
the stairs normally i take the
escalators because i'm lazy i don't feel
like doing it
you know what i'm saying and then all of
a sudden it was like i had this little
angel on my shoulder
saying change your mindset change your
life be transformed by the renewing of
your mind
so when i came to the the escalators
i'd be like change your mindset change
your life and then i would just do the
opposite
normally i would use gel soap change
your mindset change your life so i used
bar soap and then so i didn't know what
neural pathways i didn't know
any of that stuff i was literally like a
baby
that knows how to express himself only
through gaga gugu
so i had all these crazy results to my
life that people like how did you do it
i'm like
but it wasn't until i started reading
books and going to seminars
so i could connect the dots going
backwards and
but i started with just
daily things just doing the opposite of
everything i would normally do
i was just opposite opposite opposite
opposite but that became my new pattern
so it was
easy to make different decisions with
the same circumstances when i had
already built the muscle
of doing the opposite and that's how i
even got into this entire philosophy
i stopped making a left so i stopped
ended up
ending up in places where people who
make a left end
and i turn the right whole different
direction whole different
outcome met new people different
opportunities everything
because it's a it was an entire world i
knew nothing about
so as you're beginning to learn about
neural pathways and i'm going to ask
this question in two different ways as
you begin learning about neural pathways
what are the
um the neurological or the belief system
things that you're beginning to change
and saying the exact same this is the
exact same question but asked in a
different way
what do you want to teach those kids
that you can connect with that started
where you started i know you have the
youth foundation launching this year
absolutely
like what what is that like belief
system
mantra it i'm guessing is a lot more
pointed than just
change your mindset change your life
absolutely one it's awareness
i had no idea that this world existed
outside of projects
outside of um you know some of my
friends with food stamps outside of um
we can't afford it we can't afford it we
can't afford it now if you think about
abc's the impact of abc's language
first there's gaga gugu then there's
language then there's the baby can now
say
ball now there's sentences paragraphs
essays books libraries
the impact of someone growing up
in a struggled household where there's
fear base
insecurity base all of that that's a
form of language
most people don't know the language
outside of that because they stay
inside watch the same tv shows listen to
the same
radio station hang around the same
friends never read books and just
follow wherever society says do this
this is popular
do this this is popular but never really
think for themselves
so going back to that language which is
really fascinating i've never heard it
explained like that and i like that a
lot we can't afford this we can afford
this we can afford this
becomes a language of communication
becomes the language of your belief
system so what is the new language
you want to give people you're really
good at repeating things
which i think is incredibly powerful and
at the end of the day i think quite
honestly you
are what you repeat obsessively in your
head um what
what are some empowering things that you
would want those kids to be repeating to
themselves
who they are because if you don't tell
yourself who you are
then then you'll allow anybody else to
tell you who you are
and how do you help them find an
empowering narrative to feed themselves
um through animation cartoons like
there's
there's so many different avenues
but again they've got to be able to
relate to it it can't just be like oh
we're just going to give these people
what i think they need now every single
child has a
desire inside of them and what i what i
what
and it irks me so much because people
always speak to the needs of people
or you need this or you should this and
you should that and
and what i want to say is
there is something inside of every child
and there's a desire to do something
but it gets lost because you should do
this you should go to school and do this
you should get a good job you should do
and all of a sudden
they'll go to whatever has energy
wherever the energy goes
that's where the energy flows and
you know what i want what i would really
want them to know
is to tell themselves who they are like
i am powerful i am amazing and these are
things that i'm literally
working with with lots of parents now
and they're like yo
within a week he wasn't getting bullied
no more she wasn't
she wasn't saying that she's ugly
anymore because
she stopped listening to the outside
noise and she started listening to
what she told herself she was i love
your analogy of
kids getting their superpowers or an
adult for that matter getting their
superpowers and you said that
every superhero has to pay a price to
get their power
yeah talk to me about that superman had
to pay a price
batman but i didn't realize this until
like
a few years ago so my whole entire life
i want to be a superhero
i want to be stronger than average man
have abs like action figure and save
people's lives all over the world
i maintain that all the way through high
school when people
started giving up and started like i'm
going to go do what my dad is doing i'm
going to go do with
what my mom is doing when it was time to
graduate and all this
all the stuff that you do to graduate
they're like so what are you going to be
when you get in the
real world tell me you still don't want
to be a superhero
and i'm like i want to be stronger than
the average man
i wanna i wanna have abs like an action
figure and i wanna save people's lives
all over the world and i was so serious
when i left that that's when i was stuck
that's when i was lost when i left
everything that i love to do as a child
that's when i said i felt like something
is missing the most
i like to say that anything that you
love as a child is connected
to your inner child which is directly
connected to source
as soon as i started doing everything
that i loved
there was a surge of power a surge of
confidence
i wasn't insecure anymore
because the emotion that had the most uh
dominance in my thought process and in
my heart process
was actually being paid attention to
you you've said that you took total
responsibility for your life
yeah when when was that moment in the
car
when i had when i was like crying out
saying okay okay
okay right before that
i was literally blaming my mom for the
situation that i'm in right now
and they don't give parents a blueprint
on how to raise kids
i didn't know that so i blamed my mom
my father was murdered i blame him for
certain things
blamed my girlfriend blame this blame
that blame
and i'm like the one person i've never
blamed was myself
and i was like so maybe it's my fault
maybe it's my fault that i'm i am where
i am so
i can't do anything about anyone else
but i can do something about me
what can i change about myself it's
interesting when you were in prison you
um started making certain changes
realizing i think you
obviously decided to learn french she
started using only your left hand
what is it about that mechanism of doing
the thing that's different doing the
opposite
what was the result you got in prison
from that when i
first got locked up it was i got busted
for smuggling
6.2 kilos of heroin i didn't so
basically i
drive this car from here to this border
you get this much money
i didn't look in the back because i
didn't want that on my conscience
so i'm just driving driving after the
eighth time i got caught
and then they x-rayed the vehicle and it
was like boom
i'm like damn
my life is i literally and i my daughter
was just born
i'm like man my life is over i had
billboards
like billboards in times square this is
when you were modeling modeling stuff so
billboards commercials out i just
interviewed with like mtv
like
and in that moment i'm like
i don't even know what's about to happen
but when they open up those congo drums
and they pulled out those little yellow
things and i'm like my life is i don't
even know what they are
but my life is over so they put me in
prison
i wrote 200 people seven people wrote me
back
so just imagine the mindset of your
friends
and it wasn't too many people there my
daughter's mother was there
my mom was there my boy troy
my brother a couple other people
and i was like my life is over and i'm
literally looking at the clock
when i got sentenced
they sentenced me till 2014
back in 2003
and i'm like it's over like every dream
i'd ever had
singing modeling acting
like any kind of inspiration over
my daughter won't even know me
and i remember my consulate
they came in and they were like we think
you might like this book because by that
time
i was just reading anything that would
keep my mind off of being in there
i just started reading reading reading
read i read a bunch of agatha christie
books because they was just like
imagination and all this kind of stuff
um
and i just started reading i read the
bible cover to cover eight times i read
the quran cover to cover eighteen i was
like
they saying the same thing and it was
like it was very fascinating i just kept
reading
and reading i didn't know that what was
filling my
brain was causing an energy inside i had
none of that
because i wasn't aware but then my my
consulate there was like we think you
might like this book
power of positive thinking all i know
is i'm reading this book
i'm reminded of everything that i loved
as a child
i start doing it it makes me happy
like super happy i'm running doing all
this other stuff all of a sudden
everybody start there was less fights
less stabbings less drug deals
and i didn't know that my own
personal desire and joy was causing that
to happen
i was just in it doing what i love to do
and then we were allowed to watch
and this was the shift we were allowed
to watch tv once a month
shawshank redemption came on and
anthony robbins said they can take
everything
away from me they can't take away my
mind
as long as i'm doing everything i'm i
love
then i'm free
what i find so interesting so you have
these huge revelations or maybe not even
quite revelations but you're certainly
acting in accordance with something
that's later gonna serve you
incredibly well and you're saying to
yourself in prison
i'm a free man i'm a free man i'm a free
man then you
after talking to your brother and
promising him that you were really gonna
pour yourself into the music and all
that you come back
your music career explodes but then it
ends up somehow trapping you again so
the thing that i hope people will really
hear because your story has just enough
messiness in it to really be valuable
yeah you come back you get out thank god
into music passion i'm singing in prison
the guy's telling me he feels free
because i'm singing i'm able to give him
that gift i'm doing the things i love
like
all of it yeah how does it become a trap
again
when i stopped reading the book i never
knew
so i never heard terms leaders or
readers and all that other stuff i
grew up with here and that kind of stuff
so i thought
all that was luck and it was just me i'm
like oh praise god
i was like oh god i've got some favor on
my life that all surface level talk
so when i stop reading the book
just like when you stop tending the uh
the garden those weeds
are going to creep back whether you like
it or not
because you weren't thinking about those
pods no anymore and i started
doing old patterns doing old things
and i didn't know that it was like a
like you brush your teeth every day
brush your teeth every day for five
years then
a week goes by you don't brush your
teeth you're wondering why is my breath
stink
you gotta brush your teeth every day
take a shower every day
so i didn't know you renew your mind
every day
sorry read all this stuff would happen
stop reading boom it would crash
just as fast as it uh just as fast as it
rose
so i i wasn't aware nor did i have
people in my life
to say you know keep reading that book
and then there was
my mentors
me pride ego
because when people say you're good
you're good you're good you're good
i now start listening to your good your
good your good
instead of the power of positive
thinking
so now my new rhythm my new melody i'm
good
it's me of course oh you're the man i'm
the man
because that's what i kept listening to
over and over and over
so buying into all of that
became my new pattern and that took me
right back into the pattern that i had
that freed me from all the stuff so what
do you do now on a daily basis i've
watched a lot of your content so i've
seen a lot of this
but what do you do on a daily basis you
obviously take really good care of your
body
absolutely um i know that you go for
rides like what is it that you're doing
on a day-to-day basis for somebody who's
watching this or listening to this
what are those actual activities or
mantras or whatever it is that you use
to renew your mind every day
all right cool so i got this thing i
call it panda power hour
just because i love pandas and i just
like to i like to
anything that i do i like to make sure
that it's aligned with
what i love and power hour
is like your first hour of the day and
you know i'm a true believer in and
uh momentum and so what i do is
every night before i go to bed i'll
write a list of things
what's on the list is irrelevant is
irrelevant because your brain responds
to progress
like you go five days and you don't get
anything productive done
your countenance is very different than
you go five days
and you book disappointing you get this
client you get this and all these things
are happening
the your physiology changes your energy
changes
everything so what i did is i just
create a list
that and it's something that's connected
to health something that's connected to
my mind
something that's connected to my spirit
it doesn't matter what it is
it's anything where this is being
activated
this is being activated and you know my
spirit my
you know my aura is being activated so
i'll write a list
it'll be like 30 40 things and it won't
even have to be
things that are really massive because
your brain
doesn't know what big and small is
we say that it just knows progress
and it'll follow the momentum wherever
wherever you focus it
and i'll put on that list
30 things before i go to bed
i look at a picture i don't look at a
picture of my daughter
i look at it just get myself in the
emotion of love
something that just makes me really
happy and then i'll look at the list
because normally if i look like like
lists and percentages and charts and
stuff i'll shut down really quick
so i've literally got to create the
emotion
the the anchor for
what this list means to me energetically
so i'll look at all the stuff that i
love then i'll look at the list
look at stuff that i love then i'll look
at the list look at the stuff that i
love
then i'll look at the list when the list
starts taking on the same energy as the
stuff that i love
then i go to sleep when you go to sleep
your mind goes to work
and when i wake up there's just an
energy
4 30 5 30 in the morning no alarm clock
just bam i just pop up
the overflow of who i would i
create the energy that i create in
myself in the morning
spills out into people spills out into
to
you know income opportunities spills out
into the world
and the other stuff on the list is
irrelevant
what's the trait that you've cultivated
in yourself that you think is
most responsible for your success
honestly
the ability to love no matter what that
is not what i expected you to say
the ability to love no matter what
because i came from such a hateful
environment
and i didn't know
i didn't know
what was going on while i was in
insecurity
i don't love myself i have a high um
hairline
i'm gonna be bald by the time i'm 20 and
that's all i'm hearing my slightly
crooked nose
i don't love myself i don't love my body
so i'm just eat all this food
like coming from that environment
and then learning to love every aspect
of myself
whether you like it or not and just
truly learning to love myself
and then being in a situation where i
was in business
with someone that had a very similar
very similar path and very similar
growth of success
but it seemed like something was holding
us both
down and i remember one day we were
going on a retreat
and i looked in the mirror and i said
you know what him being a friend of me
has nothing to do with me being a friend
of him
so i'm just going to love no matter what
and i remember
saying that and something leaped out of
my chest it was like this
weird thick
and i felt light i felt very different
now that day
i posted this is before i was getting
thousands of likes and thousands of
shares
that day i posted something on facebook
i
tagged maybe 48 people and got
maybe 30 something likes that's when
nobody was messing with your boy
and that weekend when we went on that
trip i was like you know him being a
friend of me has nothing to do with me
being in front of him so i'm just gonna
love no matter what
and i'm just going no one state
no one i will never give anyone else
permission
to change who i am and when i just
made that decision to love no matter
what
even if you hurt me i know deep down
inside that that's not really you
and just to come from
from the place of loving no matter what
and really
being able to accept people for who they
are
how they are and how they are not
without any expectation
whatsoever
three days later i went on facebook and
i posted the exact
same message but i didn't tag anybody
but i
felt different feeling is the secret i
felt different where i was coming from
saying the exact same thing
i posted it was like 475 likes like
within like an hour
i'm like what the hell happened i was
speaking to my life coach
at the time monica zanz and she was like
well what did you do different i was
like
well i had this conversation she was
she was like you released hate from your
heart and that was
the grip hole that you had resentment
like
what it takes to hold on remember i told
you
we're not created to be keepers we're
created to be givers
you and i we can't hold that water it's
got to come out can't hold like
all that stuff you hold on to and i was
holding on to resentment
but the power that it takes to hold on
to resentment
is the same power that's needed to
sustain at the next level and i didn't
even know that i was
holding on to the the universe at the
next level
inside of that resentment
when i let that go
anything that i was a part of tripled it
within three months
and people like what are you doing what
do you know i was the only thing i did
was just like release the resentment
that was inside
i totally get it before i ask my last
question
tell these guys where they can find you
online um you can definitely go on uh
garenjones.com uh g-a-r-r-a-i-n-jones
dot com
um on instagram garen dot
jones facebook garen jones snapchat chat
garen jones i love it man all right my
last question
what's the impact that you want to have
on the world the impact
that i want to have on the world that
i'm going to have that i am having
is creating a space where people realize
that their purpose is not out
their purpose is in as the highest
version of themselves
and what i mean by that is i've always
looked for
how my purpose is this girl or this job
or this money my purpose is to save the
children
and all this but when i became and i'm
working towards the fullest expression
of myself
that's the kind of person that has all
those things
and knowing that there
five years from now that there's a
stronger quicker faster more impactful
garen
out there
it drives me wild so i'm reading and
studying oh who's my who's gonna be my
next mentor
what's this next thing what's this next
seminar
for people to understand and discover
that within themselves
is everything that they're looking for
everything that they've been looking for
has been inside of this them this entire
time
and creating way through personal
example through
through any platform for people to
discover that
and just hear that and and and and
really get the essence of
wow it was me
the entire time and i truly do feel like
a person that gets that and
understands that they will have packed a
million lives so if you
get a million people to get that and
understand that
that thing is gonna spread like it's
gonna spread like crazy
but it's got people gotta see it
you know when you see that now you'll
have a different perspective
i love that karen thank you so much for
coming on man
absolutely incredible guys
like i said this is one of the most
insane ranks richest stories i've ever
heard
in my life you've got to check it out it
is
to see how far you can go in one
lifetime is absolutely incredible and
the fact that he's
stumbled along the way and picked
himself back up and had to really figure
this out so that he could
as he said renew his mind over and over
and over and constantly tend that garden
and the way that he does it and the
passion and enthusiasm that he brings in
the way that he welcomes people into his
world is
absolutely beautiful to witness check
him out follow him you will see for
yourself
exactly what i'm talking about alright
if you guys haven't already be sure to
subscribe
and until next time my friends be
legendary take care
thank you man
everybody thank you so much for watching
and being a part of this community if
you haven't already
be sure to subscribe you're going to get
weekly videos on building a growth
mindset cultivating grit
and unlocking your full potential